readme.md, before:

# Hydrate Research

> React design system and UI builder research for [Hydrate](https://www.hydrate.io).

## Companies

- [Compositor](https://compositor.io) - Modern tools for designers & developers.
- [Formidable](https://formidable.com) - A JavaScript Consultancy Built for the Modern Web.
- [Zeit](https://zeit.co) - These guys kick ass. Period.

## Projects

#### WYSIWYG UI Builders

- [Framer X](https://framer.com/x/) - Interactive design for everyone.
  - Use actual React in your projects to create interactive components from scratch.
  - [Awesome Framer X](https://github.com/davo/awesome-react-framer-x)
- [Interplay](https://interplayapp.com/) - Prototype fast with your design system code components.
  - Create prototypes as easily as sketch & invision, but with real code.
  - Supports React, Vue, Angular, etc.
- [Compositor Lab](https://compositor.io/lab) - Component-based design system manager for building production-ready UI.
  - Closed source product, but this blog [post](https://compositor.io/blog/open-formats) gives a solid idea of how they model things.
- [Pagedraw](https://pagedraw.io) - The best UI builder for the web.
  - Draw your React components, but use them like components coded manually. Import mockups from Sketch or Figma.
  - "Pagedraw is perhaps the most ambitious WYSIWYG editor for React apps." - Pete Hunt, co-creator of React
- [Alva](https://github.com/meetalva/alva) - Radically new design tool that enables cross-functional teams to design digital products.
  - [Homepage](https://meetalva.io/)
  - This tool does a lot of what we're looking to do and is open source.
- [Storybook](https://github.com/storybooks/storybook) - Interactive UI component dev & test.
- [Structor](https://github.com/ipselon/structor) - React UI Builder.
- [Tipe.io](https://tipe.io/) - Autogenerate graph schemas, live-edit content in browser.

#### Component Library Style Guides

- [docz](https://github.com/pedronauck/docz) - It has never been so easy to document your things!
- [x0](https://github.com/c8r/x0) - Document & develop React components without breaking a sweat.
- [Styleguidist](https://github.com/styleguidist/react-styleguidist) - Isolated React component development environment with a living style guide.
- [Pattern Plate](https://github.com/patternplate/patternplate) - Connects design and engineering to establish a single source of truth for your team.
- [mdx-docs](https://github.com/jxnblk/mdx-docs/) - Document and develop React components with MDX and Next.js.

#### Useful React Libraries

- [Kit](https://github.com/c8r/kit) - Tools for developing, documenting, and testing React component libraries.
  - Only 2 months old.
  - [Responsive](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/Responsive.md) - Displays children in `<iframe>`s, using the `Frame` component, at multiple viewport sizes.
  - [XRay](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/XRay.md) - Displays a grid and adds outlines to children.
  - [Frame](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/Frame.md) - Renders children in an `<iframe>` – useful for testing responsive layouts and ensuring isolation from the parent document.
  - [Cartesian](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/Cartesian.md) - Display the cartesian product of component props.
  - [Matrix](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/Matrix.md) - Displays a matrix of component permutations.
  - [LiveEditor](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/LiveEditor.md) - The LiveEditor component is a wrapper around [react-live](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/react-live), with basic UI and a [ThemeProvider](https://www.styled-components.com/docs/advanced#theming).
  - [PropsForm](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/PropsForm.md) - Add form controls to adjust a component's props.
  - [Diff](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/Diff.md) - Shows a visual diff between two elements.
  - [Font](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/Font.md) - Set font-family and other typographic styles.  Also provides a convenient webfont loader using [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/).
  - [Catch](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/Catch.md) - React `componentDidCatch` component that displays errors. Kind of like react-native's RedBox.
- [MDX](https://github.com/mdx-js/mdx) - JSX in Markdown for ambitious projects.
  - Combines the readability of Markdown with the expressivity and power of JSX.
- [react-live](https://github.com/formidablelabs/react-live) - A production-focused playground for live editing React components.
  - Transpiles code from Prism editor via buble client-side.
  - Doesn't support imports but does support custom scope.
- [component-playground](https://github.com/formidablelabs/component-playground) - Renders React components with editable source and live preview.
  - Transpiles code from Codemirror editor via babel-standalone client-side.
- [react-docgen](https://github.com/reactjs/react-docgen) - Extracts documentation info from React component files.

#### Useful General Libraries

- [gray-matter](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/gray-matter) - Front-matter metadata parser.

#### Mad Science

- [react-suspense](https://github.com/facebook/react/tree/master/fixtures/unstable-async/suspense) - Consistent way of handling asynchronicity in React.
  - Could be used, for example, to easily async import components that are transpiled on the server.

## Reading

- [Pure UI](https://rauchg.com/2015/pure-ui)
- [Interfaces](https://spectrum.chat/thread/ac4cba39-0582-4b73-9582-9e863ed66346)

## License

MIT © [Hydrate](https://www.hydrate.io)

Commit message:

Add react-proto and BuilderX

readme.md, after:

# Hydrate Research

> React design system and UI builder research for [Hydrate](https://www.hydrate.io).

## Companies

- [Compositor](https://compositor.io) - Modern tools for designers & developers.
- [Formidable](https://formidable.com) - A JavaScript Consultancy Built for the Modern Web.
- [Zeit](https://zeit.co) - These guys kick ass. Period.

## Projects

#### WYSIWYG UI Builders

- [Framer X](https://framer.com/x/) - Interactive design for everyone.
  - Use actual React in your projects to create interactive components from scratch.
  - [Awesome Framer X](https://github.com/davo/awesome-react-framer-x)
- [Interplay](https://interplayapp.com/) - Prototype fast with your design system code components.
  - Create prototypes as easily as sketch & invision, but with real code.
  - Supports React, Vue, Angular, etc.
- [Compositor Lab](https://compositor.io/lab) - Component-based design system manager for building production-ready UI.
  - Closed source product, but this blog [post](https://compositor.io/blog/open-formats) gives a solid idea of how they model things.
- [Pagedraw](https://pagedraw.io) - The best UI builder for the web.
  - Draw your React components, but use them like components coded manually. Import mockups from Sketch or Figma.
  - "Pagedraw is perhaps the most ambitious WYSIWYG editor for React apps." - Pete Hunt, co-creator of React
- [Alva](https://github.com/meetalva/alva) - Radically new design tool that enables cross-functional teams to design digital products.
  - [Homepage](https://meetalva.io/)
  - This tool does a lot of what we're looking to do and is open source.
- [Storybook](https://github.com/storybooks/storybook) - Interactive UI component dev & test.
- [Structor](https://github.com/ipselon/structor) - React UI Builder.
- [Tipe.io](https://tipe.io/) - Autogenerate graph schemas, live-edit content in browser.
- [react-proto](https://github.com/React-Proto/react-proto) - React prototyping tool for developers and designers.
- [builderX](https://builderx.io) - Screen design tool which codes React Native for you.

#### Component Library Style Guides

- [docz](https://github.com/pedronauck/docz) - It has never been so easy to document your things!
- [x0](https://github.com/c8r/x0) - Document & develop React components without breaking a sweat.
- [Styleguidist](https://github.com/styleguidist/react-styleguidist) - Isolated React component development environment with a living style guide.
- [Pattern Plate](https://github.com/patternplate/patternplate) - Connects design and engineering to establish a single source of truth for your team.
- [mdx-docs](https://github.com/jxnblk/mdx-docs/) - Document and develop React components with MDX and Next.js.

#### Useful React Libraries

- [Kit](https://github.com/c8r/kit) - Tools for developing, documenting, and testing React component libraries.
  - Only 2 months old.
  - [Responsive](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/Responsive.md) - Displays children in `<iframe>`s, using the `Frame` component, at multiple viewport sizes.
  - [XRay](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/XRay.md) - Displays a grid and adds outlines to children.
  - [Frame](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/Frame.md) - Renders children in an `<iframe>` – useful for testing responsive layouts and ensuring isolation from the parent document.
  - [Cartesian](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/Cartesian.md) - Display the cartesian product of component props.
  - [Matrix](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/Matrix.md) - Displays a matrix of component permutations.
  - [LiveEditor](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/LiveEditor.md) - The LiveEditor component is a wrapper around [react-live](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/react-live), with basic UI and a [ThemeProvider](https://www.styled-components.com/docs/advanced#theming).
  - [PropsForm](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/PropsForm.md) - Add form controls to adjust a component's props.
  - [Diff](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/Diff.md) - Shows a visual diff between two elements.
  - [Font](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/Font.md) - Set font-family and other typographic styles.  Also provides a convenient webfont loader using [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/).
  - [Catch](https://github.com/c8r/kit/blob/master/docs/Catch.md) - React `componentDidCatch` component that displays errors. Kind of like react-native's RedBox.
- [MDX](https://github.com/mdx-js/mdx) - JSX in Markdown for ambitious projects.
  - Combines the readability of Markdown with the expressivity and power of JSX.
- [react-live](https://github.com/formidablelabs/react-live) - A production-focused playground for live editing React components.
  - Transpiles code from Prism editor via buble client-side.
  - Doesn't support imports but does support custom scope.
- [component-playground](https://github.com/formidablelabs/component-playground) - Renders React components with editable source and live preview.
  - Transpiles code from Codemirror editor via babel-standalone client-side.
- [react-docgen](https://github.com/reactjs/react-docgen) - Extracts documentation info from React component files.

#### Useful General Libraries

- [gray-matter](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/gray-matter) - Front-matter metadata parser.

#### Mad Science

- [react-suspense](https://github.com/facebook/react/tree/master/fixtures/unstable-async/suspense) - Consistent way of handling asynchronicity in React.
  - Could be used, for example, to easily async import components that are transpiled on the server.

## Reading

- [Pure UI](https://rauchg.com/2015/pure-ui)
- [Interfaces](https://spectrum.chat/thread/ac4cba39-0582-4b73-9582-9e863ed66346)

## License

MIT © [Hydrate](https://www.hydrate.io)
